##  Installation Step  ##

### System Update and Packages ###

The steps to install the packages must be done on all the machines of the cluster, unless specified.
All the packages are installing using command line.

Firstly, system packages must be updated.

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get -y upgrade 

Now install package config package

sudo apt-get install pkg-config 


### Java ###

First install the Sun/Oracle Java repository and then install Java package.

apt-get install -y python-software-properties
add-apt-repository ppa:webupd8team/java
apt-get update
apt-get install -y oracle-java6-installer

Now add the path to the Java package to your environment

echo -e "JAVA_HOME=/usr/lib/jvm/java-6-oracle  \
JAVA_BIN=$JAVA_HOME/bin	\
PATH=$PATH:$JAVA_HOME:$JAVA_BIN	\
export JAVA_HOME	\
export JAVA_BIN	\
export PATH" >> /etc/profile


### Protocol Buffers ###

Download, compile, and install the protocol buffers.

wget http://protobuf.googlecode.com/files/protobuf-2.4.1.tar.gz
sudo tar -xzf protobuf-2.4.1.tar.gz
cd protobuf-2.4.1
sudo ./configure
sudo make
sudo make install
sudo ldconfig


### Hadoop ###

Cloudera Hadoop installation is simply done through Aptitude package installer.

sudo apt-get install -y hadoop-0.20 hadoop-0.20-conf-pseudo \
hadoop-0.20-datanode hadoop-0.20-doc hadoop-0.20-native \
hadoop-0.20-pipes hadoop-0.20-sbin hadoop-0.20-tasktracker \
hadoop-0.20-namenode hadoop-0.20-secondarynamenode hadoop-0.20-jobtracker

Next, add the Hadoop home, binaries, and libraries to environment path.

echo -e "export HADOOP=/usr/lib/hadoop-0.20	\
export HADOOP_HOME=$HADOOP	\
export HADOOP_BIN=$HADOOP/bin	\
export HADOOP_LIB=$HADOOP/lib	\
export HADOOP_CONF_DIR=$HADOOP/conf	\
export PATH=$HADOOP:$HADOOP_BIN:$HADOOP_HOME:$HADOOP_LIB:$PATH" >> /etc/bashrc


### R ###

sudo apt-get install -y r-base r-base-dev r-recommended \
r-cran-rodbc ess


### Binutils and rJava ###

Binutils and rJava are packages required by RHIPE. Binutils can be installed using the aptitude package installer.

sudo apt-get install binutils-gold

Before installing rJava ensure that JAVA_HOME environment variable is pointing to the Sun/Oracle installation of Java. If not, log out and log back into the system. rJava needs to be downloaded and installed using R.

wget http://cran.r-project.org/src/contrib/rJava_0.9-6.tar.gz
sudo R CMD INSTALL rJava_0.9-6.tar.gz


### RHIPE ###

RHIPE is also to be downloaded and installed using R.

wget https://raw.github.com/saptarshiguha/RHIPE/master/code/RHIPE_0.73.tar.gz
R CMD INSTALL RHIPE_0.73.tar.gz


### R Packages ###

The R packages codetools, MASS, lattice, boot, shiny, and devtools are required for installing 
Trelliscope and Datadr. They are installed by using install.packages command in R.

sudo R -e "install.packages('codetools', repos='http://cran.rstudio.com/')"
sudo R -e "install.packages('MASS', repos='http://cran.rstudio.com/')"
sudo R -e "install.packages('lattice', repos='http://cran.rstudio.com/')"
sudo R -e "install.packages('boot', repos='http://cran.rstudio.com/')"
sudo R -e "install.packages('shiny', repos='http://cran.rstudio.com/')"
sudo R -e "install.packages('devtools', repos='http://cran.rstudio.com/')

openssl package is also required and can be installed with apititude.

sudo apt-get -y install libcurl4-openssl-dev


### Datadr and Trelliscope ###

Datadr and trelliscope is installed using install_github function and R.

sudo R -e "options(repos = 'http://cran.rstudio.com/'); library(devtools); install_github('datadr', 'hafen')"
sudo R -e "options(repos = 'http://cran.rstudio.com/'); library(devtools); install_github('trelliscope', 'hafen')"


### Rstudio ###

Rstudio is an optional package. It can be used in lieu of command line R. It needs to be installed only on the Namenode/Jobtracker machine.

wget http://download2.rstudio.org/rstudio-server-0.98.507-amd64.deb -O /tmp/rstudio-server.deb
sudo apt-get -y install gdebi-core
sudo gdebi --n /tmp/rstudio-server.deb


### Shiny Server ###

Cmake needs to be compiled for shiny server.

wget http://www.cmake.org/files/v2.8/cmake-2.8.12.2.tar.gz
tar xzf cmake-2.8.12.2.tar.gz
cd cmake-2.8.12.2
./configure
make

Shiny-server code is copied from github and compiled. Configuration file is placed in /etc/shiny-server/

git clone https://github.com/rstudio/shiny-server.git
sudo mkdir -p /etc/shiny-server
sudo cp shiny-server/config/default.config /etc/shiny-server/shiny-server.conf

# Get into a temporary directory in which we'll build the project
cd shiny-server
mkdir tmp
cd tmp

# Add the bin directory to the path so we can reference node
DIR=`pwd`
PATH=$PATH:$DIR/../bin/

# See the "Python" section below if your default python version is not 2.6 or 2.7. 
PYTHON=`which python`

# Check the version of Python. If it's not 2.6.x or 2.7.x, see the Python section below.
$PYTHON --version

# Use cmake to prepare the make step. Modify the "--DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX"
# if you wish the install the software at a different location.
../../cmake-2.8.12.2/bin/cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local -DPYTHON="$PYTHON" ../
# Get an error here? Check the "How do I set the cmake Python version?" question below

# Recompile the npm modules included in the project
make -j4
mkdir ../build
(cd .. && bin/npm --python="$PYTHON" rebuild)

# Need to rebuild our gyp bindings since 'npm rebuild' won't run gyp for us.
(cd .. && ext/node/lib/node_modules/npm/node_modules/node-gyp/bin/node-gyp.js --python="$PYTHON" rebuild)

# Install the software at the predefined location
sudo make install

# POST INSTALL
# Place a shortcut to the shiny-server executable in /usr/bin
sudo ln -s /usr/local/shiny-server/bin/shiny-server /usr/bin/shiny-server
#Create shiny user. On some systems, you may need to specify the full path to 'useradd'
        sudo useradd -r -m shiny

# Create log, config, and application directories
sudo mkdir -p /var/log/shiny-server
sudo mkdir -p /srv/shiny-server
sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/shiny-server
sudo chown shiny /var/log/shiny-server

#copy shiny examples
sudo mkdir /srv/shiny-server/examples
sudo cp -R /usr/local/lib/R/site-library/shiny/examples/* /srv/shiny-server/examples
sudo chown -R shiny:shiny /srv/shiny-server/examples
sudo -u shiny nohup shiny-server &

